pansy the chimps extraordinary skills
with human language have led researchers
to explore the little-known world of
chimpanzee communication at twycross zoo
primatologist dr. kachur LaBelle is
investigating the methods of
communication chip choose amongst
themselves although chimps can't speak
they use a range of gestures and facial
expressions as a way of communicating
Shems don't meet language in their
environment because they have a very
complex communicative system based on
nonverbal communication by observing
many different groups of chimpanzees
catcher hopes to compile the world's
first chimp dictionary the twycross
chimps are a useful group to study
there's an ongoing power struggle
between the dominant male Kip and a
young teenage challenger named Peter
fights between the pair are commonplace
the tension is producing a rich and
varied array of chimp communication
across the whole group the first gesture
noticed by catcher comes as a direct
result of the fight Peter is spotted
making a facial expression that
signifies fear the corners of the mouth
are really withdrawn and you can see the
teeth they also do this when they scream
so it can be slightly open chimps also
have a facial expression for playfulness
the mouth is open and the teeth are
still covered with the lips would be
like this so this would be a play face
in this interaction we can see Kip and
William or chasing around and you can
see that it's a play for interaction
because William actually has a play face
but chimps gestures can be far more
subtle than mere facial expressions
immediately after their fight Peter
tap skipped lightly on the shoulder its
chimp for saying sorry the individual it
lost the fight will approach the more
dominant one and will extend its arm to
ask for reconciliation so this is an
expression of submissive behavior
the chimps also show such communications
as displaying which means I'm the boss
pouting which means give me some food
please
grooming which means I am your friend
and supporter pretending to buy it means
I'm enjoying this play fight all of
these behaviors reinforce social bonds
communicate feelings and establish who
is in charge of the group they even
perform actions that seem all too human
but while chimps across the world only
have a limited repertoire of
vocalizations they constantly invent and
share new gestures with each other
one theory basically yesterday imitate
gestures from each other
they learned their gestures by
interacting with others the theory that
chimps imitate each other's gestures has
led some primatologist to believe that
this behavior may have also been present
in the ancient ancestors of humans and
may have led to the languages that we
all use today
you